index.md, before:

## Welcome

Oasis Internal Arts offers classes in these Chinese healing arts: yiquan,
liuhebafa, taichi, and qigong. Its mission is to serve as an oasis for the
traveller of the modern world. People of all ages and body types are welcome
here.

**Pour consulter la version française de cette page [cliquer ici](index-fr.md).**

### The practice

The practice consists of exercises that are done standing, in a chair, and
sometimes on the floor. They are primarily done as movements but they can also
be stationary (static postures). They all have as objectives to:

* open the joints
* lengthen the sinews
* strengthen the muscles (legs, back, core)
* improve posture
* develop coordination
* foster bodily awareness

Long-term practitioners have reported additional benefits such as a better
quality of sleep, enhanced mental acuity, and a softening of the heart.

The static postures can be experienced as standing meditation (zhan zhuang).

The moving exercises are slow and sedate. They are stitched together, thereby
enabling a single longer move to be practised. To the untrained eye, this
"form" manifests as classical tai chi. Indeed, the founding teacher (Mr. Moy)
chose traditional Yang style for the choreography of his internal art.

Various aspects of the exercises are highlighted as a student's capacity to
understand them deepens over time. Everyone engages in the same essential
practice however. **All the instructions can be adapted according to the needs
of each student.**

For more information on the origins of these teachings see the [Tai Chi
Nuances](https://taichinuances.com) website.

### The environment

The teacher shares their experience and the students practice in a
non-competitive environment. Teacher and student often practice together.
Everything takes place in a convivial, unhurried, and informal atmosphere.

Participants are encouraged to dispense with their shoes (the space is cleaned
beforehand).

There will be a short break where herbal tea is served.

### Schedule and fees

| Course
| 10 Saturdays (March 18 - June 3)
| *no class on April 29 and May 6*
| time: 10:00 am to 11:30 am
| fee: $150 (no taxes)

| LOCATION:
|      [Pointe-Claire Aquatic Centre](http://www.pointe-claire.ca/en/schedules-and-facilities-aquatic-centre/)
|      60 Maywood Avenue, Pointe-Claire, Quebec H9R 0A7
|      multi-functional room (beside the weight room)
|      [see the map](https://goo.gl/maps/3Dpr7Yw7d25m5mdv9)

Send an email if you are interested. A minimum number of people is required.

<!--
Come as you are. There is no need to register in advance.
-->

### What you will need

* loose clothing
* a yoga mat or a blanket
* thick socks (or double socks)

Avoid a big meal prior to class.

### Teacher

Peter Matulis has been practising a modern expression of yiquan, liuhebafa,
taichi, and qigong since 1991. To this day, he continues to learn these arts
from his teacher Philippe Gagnon. He also took classes in traditional Chen
village tai chi for eight years (2012 - 2020).

### Acknowledgements

These teachings would not be possible without the lifelong dedication of many
individuals. The following is a simplified lineage chart:

```
Wang Xiangzhai (yiquan)
  \-- Yu Pengxi             Wu Yihui (liuhebafa)
        \-- Liang Zipeng --/
              \-- Sun Zhi (yiquan + xingyi)
              \-- Moy Lin-shin
                    \-- Philippe Gagnon
```

### Contact

Inquiries can be made by [e-mail](mailto:info@oasis-internal.art).

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

| Oasis Internal Arts
| © PETER MATULIS ----- All rights reserved

Commit message:

Adjust dates and drop-in option

index.md, after:

## Welcome

Oasis Internal Arts offers classes in these Chinese healing arts: yiquan,
liuhebafa, taichi, and qigong. Its mission is to serve as an oasis for the
traveller of the modern world. People of all ages and body types are welcome
here.

**Pour consulter la version française de cette page [cliquer ici](index-fr.md).**

### The practice

The practice consists of exercises that are done standing, in a chair, and
sometimes on the floor. They are primarily done as movements but they can also
be stationary (static postures). They all have as objectives to:

* open the joints
* lengthen the sinews
* strengthen the muscles (legs, back, core)
* improve posture
* develop coordination
* foster bodily awareness

Long-term practitioners have reported additional benefits such as a better
quality of sleep, enhanced mental acuity, and a softening of the heart.

The static postures can be experienced as standing meditation (zhan zhuang).

The moving exercises are slow and sedate. They are stitched together, thereby
enabling a single longer move to be practised. To the untrained eye, this
"form" manifests as classical tai chi. Indeed, the founding teacher (Mr. Moy)
chose traditional Yang style for the choreography of his internal art.

Various aspects of the exercises are highlighted as a student's capacity to
understand them deepens over time. Everyone engages in the same essential
practice however. **All the instructions can be adapted according to the needs
of each student.**

For more information on the origins of these teachings see the [Tai Chi
Nuances](https://taichinuances.com) website.

### The environment

The teacher shares their experience and the students practice in a
non-competitive environment. Teacher and student often practice together.
Everything takes place in a convivial, unhurried, and informal atmosphere.

Participants are encouraged to dispense with their shoes (the space is cleaned
beforehand).

There will be a short break where herbal tea is served.

### Schedule and fees

| COURSE
| 9 Saturdays (March 18 - June 3)
| *no class on April 8, 29 and May 6*
| time: 10:00 am to 11:30 am
| fee: $135 (no taxes)

| Location:
|      [Pointe-Claire Aquatic Centre](http://www.pointe-claire.ca/en/schedules-and-facilities-aquatic-centre/)
|      60 Maywood Avenue, Pointe-Claire, Quebec H9R 0A7
|      multi-functional room (beside the weight room)
|      [see the map](https://goo.gl/maps/3Dpr7Yw7d25m5mdv9)

Send an email if you are interested. A minimum number of people is required.

Drop-in visits are also possible. Please inquire before showing up.

### What you will need

* loose clothing
* a yoga mat or a blanket
* thick socks (or double socks)

Avoid a big meal prior to class.

### Teacher

Peter Matulis has been practising a modern expression of yiquan, liuhebafa,
taichi, and qigong since 1991. To this day, he continues to learn these arts
from his teacher Philippe Gagnon. He also took classes in traditional Chen
village tai chi for eight years (2012 - 2020).

### Acknowledgements

These teachings would not be possible without the lifelong dedication of many
individuals. The following is a simplified lineage chart:

```
Wang Xiangzhai (yiquan)
  \-- Yu Pengxi             Wu Yihui (liuhebafa)
        \-- Liang Zipeng --/
              \-- Sun Zhi (yiquan + xingyi)
              \-- Moy Lin-shin
                    \-- Philippe Gagnon
```

### Contact

Inquiries can be made by [e-mail](mailto:info@oasis-internal.art).

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

| Oasis Internal Arts
| © PETER MATULIS ----- All rights reserved
